+++
title = "stg-repair(1)"
+++

stg-repair(1)
=============

NAME
----
stg-repair - Repair stack after branch is modified with git commands

SYNOPSIS
--------
[verse]
'stg repair' [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

If a branch with a StGit stack is modified with certain git commands such as
commit, pull, merge, or rebase, the StGit stack metadata will become
inconsistent with the branch state. There are a few options for resolving this
kind of situation:

1. Use "stg undo" to undo the effect of the git commands. Or similarly use "stg
reset" to reset the stack/branch to any previous stack state.

2. Use "stg repair". This will repair the StGit stack metadata to accommodate
the modifications to the branch made by the git commands. Specifically, it will
do the following:

- If regular git commits were made on top of the stack of StGit patches (i.e.
by using plain "git commit"), "stg repair" will convert those commits to StGit
patches, preserving their content.

- However, merge commits cannot become patches. So if a merge was committed on
top of the stack, "stg repair" will mark all patches below the merge commit as
unapplied, since they are no longer reachable. An alternative when this is not
the desired behavior is to use "stg undo" to first get rid of the offending
merge and then run "stg repair" again.

- The applied patches are supposed to be precisely those that are reachable
from the branch head. If, for example, "git reset" was used to move the head,
some applied patches may no longer be reachable and some unapplied patches may
have become reachable. In this case, "stg repair" will correct the
applied/unapplied state of such patches.

"stg repair" will repair these inconsistencies reliably, so there are valid
workflows where git commands are used followed by "stg repair". For example,
new patches can be created by first making commits with a graphical commit tool
and then running "stg repair" to convert those commits into patches.

StGit
-----
Part of the StGit suite - see linkman:stg[1]
